Welcome to you v unwrapping ahead.
So in this video we're going to be thinking about your Seems a where the placement is.
We're going to try and leave the face intact.
That is without seems how we're going to discover any parts that might need their own island.
So let's hop straight on over into blender and unwrap our head.
Okay so we've back over in blender and I've done a few final tweaks on my model.
I brought the chest forward a little.
It was very far back in fact and probably come forward even a little bit more.
The plinth just going to turn off and hide it out the way for the moment.
And the head itself well it's bulging ever so slightly and I do need to fix that because otherwise it's
going to look horrible So let's look at it from the front skew it slightly to one side and then scale
it in using proportional editing.
Not all the way because it will look like a hole in my head but about their CO that looks much better
and is going to do these two here as well.
Now I could faff about with a mirror and try and do both sides then mirror it background but I would
probably end up ruining my sculped if I were to do that.
Okay.
That's looking much much better.
Okay so now I've got the head here.
What we need to do is think about unwrapping.
Now we need to think carefully about which areas we want to include in one part of a V mesh.
Now the IS themselves can be separated from our model.
That's a definite yes in this case.
We don't need the ears as part of our model.
It's only going to cause problems having them there or confusion all had inhaled downshift us or selecting.
Okay.
So now I have selected both of those.
I will use control and E to mark a scene.
Okay so those are the is separate.
Now we've got to think carefully about our scenes.
If we cut out that just let's say grab the face running around facing use that's or find is we end up
with a line where we start texturing our model and we don't want a harsh line on the side of the face.
We would notice that.
So really we only perhaps want to come down as far as how or indeed where the hairline would be severe
imagine where the hairline is on the model.
They'll be a good place to have a seam because we can hide it no matter what you do in general seams
will cause some sort of horrible artefacts.
When it comes to your model and we want to avoid that during texturing So we certainly want the front
of the face and cut not cut out as such but on prominent display and then we got the rest of our model.
Now depending on what we want to do and what we want to texture we can just decide to omit some of these
other bits.
But that's entirely up to you as an artist to work that out.
Now in terms of where to cut it we certainly don't want to seem down face.
I would suggest a T shape running from about here on the side of the head.
So by the temple all the way up to the centre and then back down equally on one side and cut down the
back of the model as well all the way down to the bottom.
And of course that leads us on to a challenge unlike you to go ahead and create your you v map so finish
unwrapping your model.
Think about where you're going to place your seams and optimize your U.S. map to make sure the face
is more prominent.
You may find on your model that the face ends up a very small part of the overall image a video now
and give that a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and finish off the UVA unwrap.
Okay so we're back over in blender and the first thing I'm going to do is just try selecting a few edge
loops to see if we've got any That suits.
Now this one comes down to the top of the cheek the top of the jaw.
So that's going to be too far.
I do think this one here is going to be our best bet.
So let's bring this down here because that would be underneath the hairline.
Cavers bring this cross here and want some all the way across of course I can then use the loop cutting
tools again.
There we go or loop select tools to select the rest of it.
Now if I go ahead and select this loop here and she goes all the way down the front soddy the have unselect
all of those or just select all the ones down the back.
And I want to avoid actually selecting any on the front.
So let's go ahead and select those for you there.
Before I go any further I am going to mark a scene with control in E and make sure that this bit is
at least started.
Then I'm going to go around and bounced down to the back of the model here and just carry on selecting
these as I go.
I'm going to zoom in here simply because it's going to be a nightmare to try and select these edges
otherwise.
And this is one of those unfortunately slightly tedious tasks when it comes to modelling or he's got
to do something so repetitive.
But it gives us a lot of manual control and there's no other way of automatically selecting just the
ones we want.
So control an E again and mark a seam.
Okay so let's go and see what that looks like.
Opening up a u v image editor.
There you go.
And let's go ahead and also add a new image shall we shall be.
Are diffused maps of let's call it diffuse map.
And let's call it head to fuse map.
Okay.
Now in terms of resolution.
I'm going to choose to go for it too if for right and leave it at that.
So I'm going to select everything here and unwrap and let's see what a mess we get.
Okay.
Now this might be slightly challenging and I can see here in fact but I might have selected.
Yes there's an extra seam on my ears.
Now I am going to go fix that because that will make something unbalanced later on.
So one of them's there I thought I'd got them both no.
Okay so we need this edge here be a martz's a seam for it to match.
And this one here.
There we go.
Mixture of wrong key presses.
Have unmarked that lets you ve unwrap.
There we go.
So two ears here are the right size.
Now one of the things I'm going to do is completely hide our 3D mesh for the moment so I can focus on
this.
And you guys can see as well.
So I'm going no using board a select select just the ears and then shift them out of the way.
So I'm going to use proportional editing in fact it's already turned on let's turn it off before moving.
Good place them over here for the moment.
Now of course this textual Naturally unless we tell it otherwise repeats this would end up taking on
whatever part of the texture exists on here we'll move them back in a moment.
Because I want to select everything else that's here and see if I can align it that little bit better.
I do want this face part of it.
I mean this is this is a two thousand by two thousand odd pixel picture.
And the head is taking up a tiny proportion of it.
So with this with proportional editing turned on we can scale up the head parts of our models.
So let's go ahead and do that now and we can scale the whole thing up rather than just the face itself
and then it'll be a bit more uniform when it comes to texturing as well.
Now one thing I notice here is of course you can push it through itself and we don't want to do that
because that will cause some horrible ness as well.
So here what we can do is try different types of proportional falloff.
Some will try sharp because that's going to make more of a difference in the middle and less on the
outside.
Now if we see when I do this it means that the top of the head and under the chin are basically becoming
more and more compressed in our image and our face is taking up more of it.
I am.
I'm liking that that's now taking up a good proportion of our model or of our image sorry.
So the final thing here is to go ahead and how I've still got this one selects its over go ahead and
move it.
I'm going to screw things up big style.
So let's make sure nothing selected before trying to move these ears back onto the model.
Now ordinarily you do have to be a bit careful when it comes to scaling something so weak chop the face
out separately and scale that up.
You'd find any textures will replying would be different in scale on one part of our model than the
other.
And that will be true here as well.
As we go towards the neck or behind the ear so this case I don't think that's going to cause us any
problems even if we do put stubble on.
That should still be fine if it's not we might have to revisit the unwrap.
But I've made the face much more prominent so I can add better detail to it as well as your you ve unwrapped.
Go did you get a similar sort of looking.
You've unwrap to me.
If not what did you end up with.
Please share in the discussions and I will see you in the next lecture.